Male giraffes reach a height of up to 5.5–6.1 m (about 1/3 of the length is the neck) and weigh up to 900–1200 kg.
Giraffes have unusually long necks, despite the fact that they, like almost all other mammals (with the exception of manatees and sloths), have only seven cervical vertebrae.
Great height increases the load on the circulatory system, especially in relation to the blood supply to the brain.
Therefore, giraffes have especially strong hearts.
It passes 60 liters of blood per minute, weighs 12 kg and creates a pressure that is three times higher than that of a person.
However, it would not be able to withstand the overload of a sudden lowering and raising of the giraffe's head.
Giraffes live in the savannas of Africa.
Today they can only be found south and southeast of the Sahara, primarily in the savannas of East and Southern Africa. Populations north of the Sahara were eradicated by humans in ancient times: during the times of Ancient Egypt, they existed in the Nile Delta and on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea. In the 20th century, the range of giraffes again declined significantly. 
	The largest populations of giraffes today live in nature reserves and reserves.
Although giraffe calves are born without horns, their future appearance site is marked by tufts of black hair, under which there is cartilage. Gradually, the cartilaginous tissue ossifies, turning into small horns, which then begin to grow. Tufts of black fur remain with the baby giraffe for several years, then they wear off and disappear.
The mating season usually lasts from July to September, and the duration of pregnancy is 14-15 months.
As a rule, only one cub is born.
Childbirth takes place in a standing position, so the first thing newborns have to do is fall from a height of two meters.
Immediately after birth, the baby giraffe reaches 1.8 m in height and weighs 50 kg. After just an hour, he stands firmly on his feet and within a few hours begins to run. However, cubs are allowed into the herd only after two to three weeks.
The offspring stays with the mother for about a year and a half. At the age of 4 years, the giraffe reaches sexual maturity, at 6 years - full growth.
In the wild, life expectancy is about 25 years, in captivity - about 35 years.